+++
date = "2016-12-31T13:23:04+01:00"
draft = false
title = "Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)"
linkTitle = "FAQ"
weight = 500
[menu]
[menu.main]
+++

{{% faq_question "How is MapStruct different from other bean mapping tools?" %}}

Unlike most other bean mapping tools, MapStruct doesn't work at runtime but is a compile-time code generator.

Generating mapping code at build time has many advantages:

* Early feedback about erroneous or incomplete mappings, in command line builds as well as within your IDE
* Excellent performance, as no reflection or byte code generation at runtime is needed;
the generated code contains plain method invocations, just as if the mapper was hand-written
* No runtime dependencies, making MapStruct a great solution for Android applications
* The generated code is easy to understand (and debug, if ever needed)
* The optional [Eclipse plug-in]({{< ref "ide-support.md#eclipse" >}}) assists you when writing mappings, e.g. by auto-completion

{{% /faq_question %}}

{{% faq_question "Can I use MapStruct within Eclipse?" %}}
Yes.

Check out the [set-up instructions]({{< ref "ide-support.md#eclipse" >}}) for Eclipse.
There is also a work-in-progress [Eclipse plug-in](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/mapstruct-eclipse-plugin#group-metrics-tab)
which facilitates the definition of mapper interfaces with auto-completion and some quick fixes.
{{% /faq_question %}}

{{% faq_question "Can I use MapStruct together with Project Lombok?" %}}
Yes, but currently not within a single compilation unit.

[Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/) is an annotation processor that (amongst other things) adds getters and setters to the AST (abstract syntax tree) of   compiled bean classes.
But AST modifications are not foreseen by Java annotation processing API, so other processors such as MapStruct are not aware of the getters/setters added by Lombok.
Therefore these bean properties will not be considered in the mapping code generated by MapStruct.

The solution is to put the JavaBeans to be amended by Lombok and the mapper interfaces
to be processed by MapStruct into two separate modules of your project.
Then Lombok will run in the compilation of the first module, causing the bean classes to be complete when MapStruct runs during the compilation of the second module.

A complete example can be found [here](https://github.com/mapstruct/mapstruct-examples/tree/master/mapstruct-lombok).

Efforts are underway to allow the usage of MapStruct and Lombok within a single compilation unit, too.
Refer to issue [#510](https://github.com/mapstruct/mapstruct/issues/510) for the details.
{{% /faq_question %}}
